README.md, before:

# Conversational Coding
Skill builders to increase your native coding fluency.


## The Theory
I'm stealing...err...borrowing profusely from human language learning and
current brain science to help us all code better and learn more. 

When you start learning a foreign language, human or computer, you sound
like an idiot. Benny Lewis, a famous polyglot, describes this as talking
like "Tarzan". Very basic words and really bad grammar. 

When you're new to a language, struggling through that initial level can be
very discouraging. However, if you can achieve a small success, your brain
rewards you with dopamine. You feel good, and your learning progresses
faster than if you are discouraged. Repeated success builds learning velocity.

Fluency, in this context, is the ability to communicate at a basic level 
without having to struggle through each and every word choice. You still 
sound like Tarzan, but a more relaxed Tarzan. In programming, you can do basic
things like variable assignment, loops, if tests, etc, without having to 
think too much about it.

That "think too much" is key. The human conscious mind can only think about
one thing at a time. One. Single. That's it. That means that if you have to
think about how to properly define a map so the compiler doesn't yell at you, 
your brain has to context switch away from thinking about the problem space 
and it must focus on the language constructs.

That's the goal here; to help you practice with the language as a tool so
that you can focus on the problems you want to solve, and not the tools
you're using to solve them. If you can push your coding skills into your 
subconscious then you can work much faster. 

You would normally gain this level of skill over the course of a few months.
Lots of people have, there's no secret to what you need to learn. The real
question is, can you learn it faster? What if you could move some of the
key skills into the sub-conscious in a week?


## The Method

Start with Foundations. Create your file in a temp directory, and follow the 
instructions. Do each task without referencing a Stack, IRC, or anything else.
Just your mind; your skills. Do the entire exercise before correcting anything.
Keep trying to run it; keep going until it works. If you get all the way
through and still can't make it work, then look things up. But not until
you give it your best effort.

If you're really new to your language there will be a lot of room for improvement. 
That's okay. Put on your "Big Coder" bloomers, accept the challenge, and study
what you had to look up. Those challenges give you critical feedback, you 
now know exactly what you need to practice more.

At the end of the session, delete the file. Let the learning sink into your
brain, and tomorrow start fresh. One day, probably very soon, you'll get it
all right on the first pass. Congratulate yourself, treat yourself to an extra
coffee, or whatever, and spend the rest of the day basking in your success.

The next day, start the next project.


## The Protocol

We're using some cool things; Spaced Repetition, Sensory Engagement, and Flow.
By doing one project a day we allow the brain to process what it has learned,
and we do not over-stress the learning to force success. Trying to force it 
only makes failure stronger and more frequent. 

With actual coding, we're engaging the body much more than just reading a book.
I love books, but until I type things out and have to deal with the mistakes, 
I don't really understand. When I do the typing, and work through the
bugs I engage at a much more active level. 

That leads us to Flow. As long as the projects give you a little challenge,
they push you to perform at a slightly higher level. Doing that successfully,
and doing it over the course of a few days, not only builds your skill but it
builds your confidence and enjoyment of the process. That's a serious win!


## Pragmatics

This isn't an academic discourse trying to teach you the nuance of, well, 
anything. This is a pragmatic translation of the Pareto principle to learning
to code. The Pareto principle is that "80 percent of the success come from
20 percent of the work" thing managers like to talk about. The good news is
that it's true; you can probably do 80% of the things that need doing with
about 20% of the language. By focusing on that 20%, you learn faster and can
produce good work faster.



## Before you begin
This assumes you have completed some basic learning in your language of choice.
For example:

### Go/Golang

    A Tour of Go        https://tour.golang.org/list
    Exercism            https://exercism.org/tracks/go
    Learning Go         https://www.amazon.com/dp/1492077216
    Introducing Go      https://www.amazon.com/dp/1491941952
    Programming with Google Go Specialization
      https://www.coursera.org/specializations/google-golang


### Python

    Learn to Program    http://www.alan-g.me.uk/l2p2/
    A Byte of Python    https://python.swaroopch.com/
    Exercism            https://exercism.org/tracks/python
    Practical Programming: An Introduction to Computer Science Using Python 3
      https://www.amazon.com/dp/1937785459
    Python for Everybody Specialization
      https://www.coursera.org/specializations/python


### C

    Learn C             https://www.learn-c.org/
    Exercism            https://exercism.org/tracks/c
    C Tutorial          https://www.cprogramming.com/tutorial/c-tutorial.html
    Learn C the Hard Way
      https://www.amazon.com/dp/0321884922
    Introductory C Programming Specialization
      https://www.coursera.org/specializations/c-programming

Commit message:

Broke the project lists into Compiled, Interpreted, and Common. Edited Interpreted/Foundations.md to be more relevant to interpreted languages.

README.md, after:

# Conversational Coding
Skill builders to increase your native coding fluency.


## The Theory
I'm stealing...err...borrowing profusely from human language learning and
current brain science to help us all code better and learn more. 

When you start learning a foreign language, human or computer, you sound
like an idiot. Benny Lewis, a famous polyglot, describes this as talking
like "Tarzan". Very basic words and really bad grammar. 

When you're new to a language, struggling through that initial level can be
very discouraging. However, if you can achieve a small success, your brain
rewards you with dopamine. You feel good, and your learning progresses
faster than if you are discouraged. Repeated success builds learning velocity.

Fluency, in this context, is the ability to communicate at a basic level 
without having to struggle through each and every word choice. You still 
sound like Tarzan, but a more relaxed Tarzan. In programming, you can do basic
things like variable assignment, loops, if tests, etc, without having to 
think too much about it.

That "think too much" is key. The human conscious mind can only think about
one thing at a time. One. Single. That's it. That means that if you have to
think about how to properly define a map so the compiler doesn't yell at you, 
your brain has to context switch away from thinking about the problem space 
and it must focus on the language constructs.

That's the goal here; to help you practice with the language as a tool so
that you can focus on the problems you want to solve, and not the tools
you're using to solve them. If you can push your coding skills into your 
subconscious then you can work much faster. 

You would normally gain this level of skill over the course of a few months.
Lots of people have, there's no secret to what you need to learn. The real
question is, can you learn it faster? What if you could move some of the
key skills into the sub-conscious in a week?


## The Method

There are three directories: "Common", "Compiled", and "Interpreted". Start
with the "Foundations.md" project relevant to your language type, and then
later move to the other projects in your language type, and "Common".

Start with Foundations. Create your file in a temp directory, and follow the 
instructions. Do each task without referencing Stack, IRC, or anything else.
Just your mind and your skills. Do the entire exercise before correcting anything.
Keep trying to run it; keep going until it works. If you get all the way
through and still can't make it work, then look things up. But not until
you give it your best effort.

If you're really new to your language there will be a lot of room for improvement. 
That's okay. Put on your "Big Coder" bloomers, accept the challenge, and study
what you had to look up. Those challenges give you critical feedback, you 
now know exactly what you need to practice more.

At the end of the session, delete the file. Let the learning sink into your
brain, and tomorrow start fresh. One day, probably very soon, you'll get it
all right on the first pass. Congratulate yourself, treat yourself to an extra
coffee, or whatever, and spend the rest of the day basking in your success.

The next day, start the next project.


## The Protocol

We're using some cool things; Spaced Repetition, Sensory Engagement, and Flow.
By doing one project a day we allow the brain to process what it has learned,
and we do not over-stress the learning to force success. Trying to force it 
only makes failure stronger and more frequent. 

With actual coding, we're engaging the body much more than just reading a book.
I love books, but until I type things out and have to deal with the mistakes, 
I don't really understand. When I do the typing, and work through the
bugs I engage at a much more active level. 

That leads us to Flow. As long as the projects give you a little challenge,
they push you to perform at a slightly higher level. Doing that successfully,
and doing it over the course of a few days, not only builds your skill but it
builds your confidence and enjoyment of the process. That's a serious win!


## Pragmatics

This isn't an academic discourse trying to teach you the nuance of, well, 
anything. This is a pragmatic translation of the Pareto principle to learning
to code. The Pareto principle is that "80 percent of the success come from
20 percent of the work" thing managers like to talk about. The good news is
that it's true; you can probably do 80% of the things that need doing with
about 20% of the language. By focusing on that 20%, you learn faster and can
produce good work faster.



## Before you begin
This assumes you have completed some basic learning in your language of choice.
For example:

### Go/Golang

    A Tour of Go        https://tour.golang.org/list
    Exercism            https://exercism.org/tracks/go
    Learning Go         https://www.amazon.com/dp/1492077216
    Introducing Go      https://www.amazon.com/dp/1491941952
    Programming with Google Go Specialization
      https://www.coursera.org/specializations/google-golang


### Python

    Learn to Program    http://www.alan-g.me.uk/l2p2/
    A Byte of Python    https://python.swaroopch.com/
    Exercism            https://exercism.org/tracks/python
    Practical Programming: An Introduction to Computer Science Using Python 3
      https://www.amazon.com/dp/1937785459
    Python for Everybody Specialization
      https://www.coursera.org/specializations/python


### C

    Learn C             https://www.learn-c.org/
    Exercism            https://exercism.org/tracks/c
    C Tutorial          https://www.cprogramming.com/tutorial/c-tutorial.html
    Learn C the Hard Way
      https://www.amazon.com/dp/0321884922
    Introductory C Programming Specialization
      https://www.coursera.org/specializations/c-programming
